Chapter 2: First Review
2.1 Literature review
This section identifies other work, publications and research related to your topic. It will
demonstrate that your project does not exist in an academic vacuum but relates to other research
topics and fields of current interest. Related research can also help demonstrate your
understanding of your topic area, showing the reader that you are aware of what is currently
happening in the field and are conversant with other topics that impinge upon it. (Use Harvard
referencing); Here we expect at least 8 sources of information to support your literature review.
2.1.1 Example of Harvard referencing
(2005) and
Gilbert(2007) the needs of the learner will ameliorate their academic performance. The
references have been listed at the end of the document and the authors should be sorted in
ascending order in the references section.
References section
1.
35(2), 24-32.
2. Prensky, M. (2005). Engage me or enrage me. EDUCASE Review, 40(5), 61 64. Results
from PISA 2000. Paris: Organization for Economic Co-operation
Citing a website with author unknown
In text citation
researched (Learner s needs and preferences 2016)
References section
1. needs and preferences 2016, The Inclusive Design Handbook, accessed 12
December 2016, http://handbook.floeproject.org/LearnerNeedsAndPreferences.html
Citing a website with author known
In text citation
If the author is known, cite the author’s name and the date visited or created
(Sockalingam 2012)
References section
1.
Publications, accessed 12 December 2016, http://www.facultyfocus.com/articles/teaching-
and-learning/understanding-adultlearners-needs/
2.2 Research methodology
This section describes the research and project methods you will use in performing your project.
This section should not identify methods that you might be investigating as part of your project,
but those methods you are actually using. It might include development methods that you are
using as part of a systems development.
Include Life cycle model.
You also need to include the data gathering methods that you use to get the data like interviews,
observation and others.
2.3 Resource requirements
Here you need to explain the hardware and software required for your project. Give a brief
justification on why that resource is required.
For example you could mention the tools required for the Project like Packet Tracer version
number, UMLet version number and why they are required.
2.4 Functional requirements/ network requirements
(both networking and software projects)
You need to state the functional and network requirements for your project for example:
The system shall allow a guest to cancel a booking
The system shall print a report
Every computer should be able to access the hospital management software from each
of the location using a fixed IP address
Allow only web access to the Social network server and disallow all other service to users
other than admin
2.4.1 Non- functional requirements
Here you need to specify the qualities that the system should have
Example: Performance requirement
Requirement: A customer should be able to complete the booking as quickly as possible. Fit
Criterion: 90% of customers should spend no more than 20 minutes to complete the booking
process
The fit criterion is a measure that we use to check if the non-requirement has been met by the
system.
2.5 Modelling diagrams /network diagrams
You need to show your level of understanding in solving the problem at hand using some
diagrams:
2.5.1 Software projects:
A Use Case and an Activity diagram for the proposed solution
NB. The Use case diagram is a must
2.5.2 Networking projects
A high-level conceptual architecture (A diagram showing the following: hardware, software,
connectivity, communication protocols, and transmission modes like wired or wireless.)